# final 2022 reports

**Parent:** UC OSPO — Project Ideas
**Source:** https://ucsc-ospo.github.io/post/20220929
**Scraped:** 2026-02-22T23:28:47.600918

---

# OSRE'22 Students Contributors Posters and Final Reports

Twelve successful summer projects, including ten supported by GSoC, double the number of last year

The UCSC OSPO Open Source Research Experience (OSRE) Program is happy to announce that we had 12 successful summer programs. Ten of these contributors were supported by GSoC – double to the number we have had in 2021. Our other sponsors included Baskin Engineering, Toshiba America and CITRIS. The significant increase in contributor numbers was in large part due to the expansion of the OSRE to include mentors from other UC campuses and affiliated labs. This year the OSRE is excited to have 17 mentors who include researchers and faculty from three UC campuses (Santa Cruz, Riverside, and San Diego) as well one UC-run lab (Lawrence Berkeley National Lab). All these mentors are involved with UC-based open source projects and ecosystems.

Student contributors began working on their projects in mid-June, with most ending by late August/ early September. All summer contributors were asked to create a poster for or provide a presenation at the 2022 Open Source Research Symposium in late September 2022. See links to those posters as well as final products below.

We look forward to holding OSRE 2023 next summer. We will begin recruitment for mentors in the coming months and students at the start of 2023.

Interested in sponsoring this program and getting to know more about open source projects on UC campuses. Contact CROSS’s Executive Director Stephanie Lieggi for more information.

### OSRE 2022 Student Contributors

| Contributor | Summer Project | Final Products | UC-based OS Project |
|---|---|---|---|
| Mohammad Abdussalam | Geospatial Data Science on AsterixDB |
|
