# elastic tube 1D tutorial

**Parent:** preCICE — Project Ideas
**Source:** https://precice.org/tutorials-elastic-tube-1d.html
**Scraped:** 2026-02-22T23:28:47.561897

---

**Note:**Get the

[case files of this tutorial](https://github.com/precice/tutorials/tree/develop/elastic-tube-1d), as continuously rendered here, or see the

[latest released version](https://github.com/precice/tutorials/tree/master/elastic-tube-1d)(if there is already one). Read how in the

[tutorials introduction](https://precice.org/tutorials.html).

## Setup

We want to simulate the internal flow in a flexible tube as shown in the figure below (image from [1]).

The flow is assumed to be incompressible flow and gravity is neglected. Due to the axisymmetry, the flow can be described using a quasi-two-dimensional continuity and momentum equations. The motivation and exact formulation of the equations that we consider can be found in [2].

The following parameters have been chosen:

- Length of the tube: L = 10
- Inlet velocity: \(v_{inlet} = 10 + 3 sin (10 \pi t)\)
- Initial cross sectional area = 1
- Initial velocity: v = 10
- Initial pressure: p = 0
- Fluid density: \(\rho = 1\)
- Young modulus: E = 10000

Additionally the solvers use the parameters `N = 100`

(number of cells), `tau = 0.01`

(dimensionless timestep size), `kappa = 100`

(dimensionless structural stiffness) by default. These values can be modified directly in each solver.

## Configuration

preCICE configuration (image generated using the [precice-config-visualizer](https://precice.org/tooling-config-visualization.html)):

## Available solvers

Both fluid and solid participant are supported in:

*C++*: example solvers using the intrinsic[C++ API of preCICE](https://precice.org/couple-your-code-api.html). The fluid solver also depends on LAPACK (e.g. on Ubuntu`sudo apt-get install liblapack-dev`

)*Python*: example solvers using the preCICE[Python bindings](https://precice.org/installation-bindings-python.html). The run script installs these automatically via pip in a virtual environment.*Rust*: example solvers using the preCICE[Rust bindings](https://precice.org/installation-bindings-rust.html). They need`cargo`

to be installed.

## Running the Simulation

Choose one solver for each pariticipant, then open two separate terminals and start each soler by calling the respective run script. Here we use both C++ solvers:

```
cd fluid-cpp
./run.sh
```


and

```
cd solid-cpp
./run.sh
```


**Optional for python-fluid:** A run-time plot visualization can be triggered by passing `--enable-plot`

in `run.sh`

of `FluidSolver.py`

. Additionally a video of the run-time plot visualization can be generated by additionally passing `--write-video`


## Post-processing

The results from each simulation are stored in each `fluid-<participant>/output/`

folder. You can visualize these VTK files using the provided `plot-diameter.sh`

script

```
./plot-diameter.sh
```


which will try to visualize the results from both fluid cases, if available. This script calls the more flexible `plot-vtk.py`

Python script, which you can use as

```
python3 plot-vtk.py <quantity> <case>/output/<prefix>
```


Note the required arguments specifying which quantity to plot (`pressure`

, `velocity`

or `diameter`

) and the name prefix of the target vtk files.

For example, to plot the diameter of the fluid-python case using the default prefix for VTK files, `plot-diameter.sh`

executes:

```
python3 plot-vtk.py diameter fluid-python/output/out_fluid_
```


## Comparing different Fluid results

The Fluid participant defines a watchpoint at `x=5`

, which records `pressure`

and `diameter`

for every timestep.
To compare the results of the various Fluid participants, you can run them all and plot the watchpoints using `plot-all.sh`

.
The following is an example of running all Fluid solvers against the `solid-cpp`

solver:

## References

[1] B. Gatzhammer. Efficient and Flexible Partitioned Simulation of Fluid-Structure Interactions. Technische Universitaet Muenchen, Fakultaet fuer Informatik, 2014.

[2] J. Degroote, P. Bruggeman, R. Haelterman, and J. Vierendeels. Stability of a coupling technique for partitioned solvers in FSI applications. Computers & Structures, 2008.

[3] M. Mehl, B. Uekermann, H. Bijl, D. Blom, B. Gatzhammer, and A. van Zuijlen. Parallel coupling numerics for partitioned fluid-structure interaction simulations. CAMWA, 2016.
